# Football Gomez Alerts and 404s

- date: Starting 2012-12-13
- duration: Finished 10am 2012-12-14
- environment: PROD

## Summary

On Dec 13, Gomez begins reporting occassional alerts for the `football`
application pages. These alerts right themselves quickly.

* Dec 13 2012 04:37AM GMT: Initial failure: 60 seconds to first byte for football/tables.
* Dec 13 2012 05:47PM GMT: Initial failure: 60 seconds to first byte for football/tables.
* Dec 13 2012 05:55PM GMT: Severe failure: 60 seconds to first byte for football/tables.

Also around 6pm Dec 13, intermittent 404s are observed on football pages. Akamai
caching means this is a relatively minor issue.

At 10am Dec 14, the intermittent 404s are reobserved. Direct ELB, application
access to the `football` application is verified to be functioning normally, so
a hypothesis is formed around suspect `router` instances.

The router boxes are replaced in PROD. This resolves the 404s. Decision made to
wait on a long run of the router instances to determine if the issue returns.

Analysis of `router` logs indicate that 499 codes are observed at the time of
the Gomez alerting:

    10.48.51.232, - [13/Dec/2012:17:55:07 +0000], GET /football/tables HTTP/1.1,499, 0, -,"Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; GomezAgent 2.0; Windows NT)", 193.129.103.78, 10.239.171.148, 80.239.171.156, 10.141.194.70, 63.141.194.6, 59.173, -, cache_status=-, m.guardian.co.uk

NGINX 499 means a client disconnection. Note that ELBs have 60 second timeouts
which is consistent with the Gomez 60 seconds to first byte notice:

    https://forums.aws.amazon.com/message.jspa?messageID=298190

NGINX ELB DNS resolution timeout is still at 5 seconds so unlikely to be ELBs
changing IP addresses. The `router` 499 codes in the Dec 13 5-6pm block are only
observed on `football` and `diagnostics` endpoints.

    grep ',499,' access.*.log | cut -d',' -f3 | sort | uniq -c | sort -rn

An investigation of 499 error codes for Dec 10 through midday Dec 14 indicates
`football` 499s are observed on both instances from 00:53 Dec 13 continuously
through 10:08 Dec 14. Again, only observed for `football` and `diagnostics`
endpoints.

    reset && grep ',499,' * | grep football | cut -d',' -f2 | sed 's/ - \[//g' | sed 's/\]//g' | sort

Pertinent recent changes included:

* Rescaling football and router instances to use two availability zones instead
of three and a corresponding reduction in instance numbers from 3 to 2. Load
figures indicate this is well within capacity.
* Football was scaled down to c1.medium instances from m1.large instances. This
was reverted as a result of this issue.
* Router proxy matches for football changed.
* `router` deployment: Wed Dec 12 17:29 GMT (i-61e5c62a, i-63e5c628, i-67e5c62c)
* `football` deployment: Wed Dec 12 19:09 GMT
* `football` deployment: Thu Dec 13 16:19 GMT
* `router` deployment: Fri Dec 14 10:23 GMT


## Thoughts

- This sort of incident would have caused a cascaded outage in R2. Swimlaning
  saved us in this case.
- Additional Gomez alerting against the ELBs would indicate early if an issue is
  application or router based.


## Actions

- Monitor router logs for 499 codes and alert.
- NGINX Ganglia metrics for 499 codes.
- Return the `football` instances to c1.mediums.
- Incident diagnostic checklist should include notice about checking for 499s.
- NGINX should timeout proxy requests after 2 seconds, not 60, since if we don't
  have a page after two seconds, we don't want it.
