# Article server overloaded

- date: First reported about 4:25pm - 6 April 2013
- duration: 1 - 1.5 hours
- environment: PROD

## Summary

At about 4:25 we received Gomez alerts that the site was responding slowly.

One of the developers (GK) picked this up and started investigating.

Initial symptoms were:

- Large spike in article response times.
- Large spike in article content API response times.
- Large spike in advert Javascript errors.

The initial reaction was to switch off ads to see if that settled things. It did not
(the ad errors were probably a symptom rather than a cause). Note that Ads did not properly turn off at this point as
pages were being served stale (so the switch had no effect).

The dev then checked the AWS console and noticed that there were only 2 article servers where 4 were expected
(more on this later) and tried to increase the number of servers but was unable to do this remotely so headed into
the office (more on this later). In the meantime another dev (@commuterjoy) was able to increase the number of servers and the
site quickly settled down back to normal (about 5.30pm).

## Probable cause

A similar incident to this occurred on 13 Mar 2013. After that incident it was decided to increase the number of Article
servers to 4 (they are by far the most heavily used). This was done manually, but never reflected in the Cloudformation
scripts. A recent update to the AMI caused this to fall back to the old setting of 2 and this was not noticed. When we
had a spike in traffic there was not enough capacity to handle it.

## Actions

Reflect the change of number of article servers in the Cloudformation scripts.

There was an action from the previous incident to implement auto-scaling. This has not yet been done and should be made
a priority.

See if we can do something about the Ad switch not working when we really need it to (due to serve stale).

The developer was not able to address this remotely (would have taken 2 minutes) due to having an incorrect key on
their machine. Every developer should test that they can run the 'gu' commands remotely.

