# S3 connection client broke the Fronts Tool

### Summary

Over the evening of 7/4/2014 the Fronts Tool was unable to bootstrap itself twice. It remained unavailable for over 30 minutes in both cases. The reason was a change in behaviour in the Scala library used to connect to Amazon S3. 

### More Technical

The Amazon S3 client was not releasing connections from its connection pool. This resulted in no connections being available for the tool to execute the various data requests it makes to S3, notably the `config.json` file which defines the configured fronts and their collections. 

The following is an example stacktrace from the log on the EC2 instance running the facia-tool application:

```
2014-04-08 17:01:17,199 [play-akka.actor.default-dispatcher-7] INFO  com.amazonaws.http.AmazonHttpClient - Unable to execute HTTP request: Timeout waiting for connection
org.apache.http.conn.ConnectionPoolTimeoutException: Timeout waiting for connection
        at org.apache.http.impl.conn.PoolingClientConnectionManager.leaseConnection(PoolingClientConnectionManager.java:232) ~[frontend-facia-tool.jar:1-SNAPSHOT]
        at org.apache.http.impl.conn.PoolingClientConnectionManager$1.getConnection(PoolingClientConnectionManager.java:199) ~[frontend-facia-tool.jar:1-SNAPSHOT]
        at sun.reflect.GeneratedMethodAccessor6.invoke(Unknown Source) ~[na:na]
        at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43) ~[na:1.7.0_51]
```

We restarted the facia-tool application, which temporarily flushed the connection pool and allowed the application to restart. However within an hour the problem recurred.

The fix we deployed [#3836](https://github.com/guardian/frontend/pull/3836/files) added a recommended procedure for closing connections after use. As stated in [this discussion](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17782937/connectionpooltimeoutexception-when-iterating-objects-in-s3), if AmazonHttpClient opens a connection within an object, the connection is not liberated even if the object is garbage collected, so it is necessary to call `close()` in order to liberate the connection to the pool. 

Interestingly, the issue (i.e. timeout waiting for connection) has not occurred previously, despite the fact that this part of Frontend's common application codebase has been stable for many months. It is not related to an increase in traffic using the Fronts Tool, as the error is reproducible on a dev machine under the very lightest load. This cause of this apparent change in behaviour/tolerance remains undiagnosed.

### User facing consequences

The editors were unable to start the Fronts Tool, and were presented instead with the generic popup saying that the `config.file` could not be loaded. As a result they could not edit fronts for the periods in which the Fronts Tool was unavailable.

Users would have seen no apparent issues, although the fronts they saw would have not have updated during these periods.

### Monitoring

There was no metric in place at the time for monitoring S3 client exceptions. This has since been [added to CloudWatch](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/home?region=eu-west-1#metrics:graph=!D03!D16!E07!E18!ET5!MN9!NS2!PD1!SS4!ST0!VA-PT12H~300~Application~ApplicationName~Average~P0D~Stage~frontend-facia-tool~prod~s3-client-exceptions) (requires an AWS login for gu-aws-frontend)

### Thoughts

This class of obscure unpredictable bug is almost inevitable in an architecture comprising multiple interconnected systems - especially one in an early stage of rapid evolution.

### Actions

- A clearer path of issue reporting/escalation needs to be established. The bug was only properly fixed when a developer with deep knowledge of the Scala codebase (Grant Klopper) was by chance available at a late hour.

- More widespread installation of VPN access on willing developers' home machines  might have enabled a faster response.

