# Core Navigation Instance Healthcheck Terminations

- date: Starting 5.30pm 2012-12-17
- duration: Finished approx 11pm 2012-12-17
- environment: PROD

## Summary

Starting 5.30pm 2012-12-17, the `core-navigation` application instances in EC2
began failing healthchecks. (See Appendix A for notification details.)

A number of successive healthcheck failures trigger instance termination and
subsequent autoscale back to rebalance the system in the original configuration.

The failures could not have been consistent because the instances would have
yoyoed in a 10-15 minute cycle. Instead we observed only six further instance
terminations in pairs until approximately 11pm, after which no further instance
terminations occurred.

The situation was evaluated at 10pm and it was decided to take no action out of
hours. This decision was made because the benefit did not warrant the risk of
intervention:

* The extent of user facing impact was minimal.
* The additional cost of EC2 partial hours overnight was marginal.
* The estimated work required was not nontrivial.

There was known to be an ongoing incident with Ophan and the Content API at the
same time as the `core-navigation` outages. So the problems were assumed to be a
cascading failure condition. It was also expected that one of the
`core-navigation` endpoint might be failing.

The situation resolved itself without intervention overnight.

Investigation has determined that the Ophan Dashboard came under high load from
an as yet undetermined source. This caused the performance of the ElasticSearch
backing the dashboard to degrade to 20 second response times. This ElasticSearch
also backs the Ophan API that the Content API calls to get most popular data.

In the case of an Ophan API failure, the Content API simply discards and does
not provide a most popular block. This is not a graceful failure and has been
raised with Content API in the past.

The `core-navigation` application gets most popular data from the Content API.
It has not been directly verified but it assumed that the application does not
handle the unexpected JSON correctly and 500s when the most popular block is
missing.

The hypothesis explaining the occasional instance healthcheck failures is that
the Ophan Dashboard load was not consistently high.


## Thoughts

* The `core-navigation` application does not provide any essential elements of
  page content. So the site must be usable without it.
* Most popular on `core-navigation` breaks the one blocking IO call per request
  rule. It is also on every page. The one blocking IO call breach was
  purposefully allowed as most popular is not core content. We have since
  devised patterns to manage this, so most popular should adhere to the rule.
* The `core-navigation` application should expect the Content API failure in the
  form that it appears and account for it. Should not fail on a JSON parse
  error, for instance.
* It is worth evaluating the Ophan API for direct access to provide most popular
  data rather than via the Content API intermediary.
* The healthcheck options are not switchable and tinkering with the healthcheck
  in EC2 configuration brings a risk of causing the situation to deteriorate.
  Instance termination protection could possibly be used but whether it is wise
  to fiddle with the healthchecking at all is debatable. Just let the instances
  fail because that is what the system is designed to handle, not a hacked
  healthcheck.
* There is a switch to turn off related which can be used in the case where
  `core-navigation` is failing for reasons of load.


### Thoughts: User Facing Consequences

The user facing consequence of `core-navigation` yoyoing are minimal but not
none. The endpoints are behind a CDN and the JS was understood to collapse the
visible component in case of failure.

Indeed, the JS does not show the top-stories component if request fails, however
during the Ajax request to the endpoint it hangs/blocks the page.

Patrick observed this twice during the evening. The whole page loaded fine but
the top-stories navigation did not appear and the activity indicator continued
spinning. The page render and UI loop was not affected. All other page content
was there and usable.

Non-critical AJAX (all AJAX?) ought to timeout at something reasonable rather
than dumping us in a long hold. From looking at the Ophan onload average, it is
probably safe to set an HTTP timeout of 5000ms for our JSONP requests. It could
alternatively be made conditional on network speed. Reqwest allows a timeout to
be set on AJAX requests using a [constructor argument][reqwest].

[reqwest]: https://github.com/ded/reqwest/blob/9b44caeedf899a394f22f53ea9f4ca9cc3c78f77/src/reqwest.js#L196

Also, up the cache time for most read/top-stories components.

## Actions

- Tease the architects about swimlaning the Ophan Dashboard and the Ophan API.
- Change most popular to adhere to one blocking IO rule.
- Add timeouts to AJAX calls.
- Up the cache time for most read/top-stories components.
- Check and fix `core-navigation` to gracefully handle Content API JSON with a
  missing most popular block.
