# Frontend incident report - 18/07/2013

## Date
18th July 2013 from 15:40 - 19:23

## Summary
At around 15.40 the full scorecard for the ashes cricket pages began returning 503 errors. Cricket score modules became stale too, since the XHR requests were returning stale data to other, live pages.

I received an email from the amazon SNS topic subscription which informed us of a failing system health check, and at 16:15 I did a manual test of the sport page which was returning 503 on both prod and code. The health check showed that even the older page was unresponsive, and so a quick test of the feed url revealed that the block was due to the third-party feed call timing out (2 seconds, versus 20 second response).

The auto-scaling group cycled continuously due to the poor health of new and old instances. The health check was weakened to allow the deployment of a wider feature switch, which was then set to off.

When the feed became responsive again, the feature switch was turned on.

## Effect on end users
All end users who hit the static scores endpoint received 503 error pages, whilst other pages which injected the scores module via AJAX had stale data.

## Lessons to be learned.
The SNS notification was useful as a first alert. Need to ensure that these warnings do not get hidden by numerous standard normal-operation alerts.

Ensure that feature switches fully surround the functionality they are targeted for. In this case, recent changes were not wrapped by the feature switch.

The swimlaning of applications meant the issue was isolated to the sport server. Application dependencies are key to defining how the applications are partitioned.

It is possible that we could distinguish between the health of the application, and the health of it's dependencies (eg. content api, third-party), and have different ways of reporting and responding to these situations. Terminating a server instance because it's external dependency was out-of-service was not beneficial, when the internal application health was ok.

## Actions

Ensure the feature switch encapsulates the code for the cricket modules.