# Play 2.1 upgrade merge breaks TeamCity build

- date: Starting about 11am 2013-03-11
- duration: 2.5 days
- environment: TeamCity build environment

## Summary

At 11am 13 March the merge of [scala 2.10 & play 2.1](https://github.com/guardian/frontend/pull/512) was made to master. This was successfully built and deployed around lunchtime that same day.

During the subsequent days a few people noticed the odd build failed in TeamCity with the message,

```
$ Loading project definition from /opt/TeamCity/buildAgent/work/7e2412cad7e162c7/project
$ Frontend.scala:8: not found: object sbtassembly
$ import sbtassembly.Plugin.AssemblyKeys._
...
```

... from http://teamcity.gudev.gnl:8111/viewLog.html?buildId=75926&buildTypeId=bt288&tab=buildLog

Normal course of action is to re-run the build to see if it was a random error. This solution worked a few times over the next 2 days.

On Wednesday at 2pm during a routine deployment of some client-side code changes (by @ahume and @commuterjoy) the _event_ application failed to build with the above error. Re-running the build failed to fix the problem.

On closer inspection three things were apparent,

- The previously ignored failed builds of the past two days were local to one of the build agents (gutmc03).
- All builds failed when the TeamCity, 'clean all files in checkout directory before build' was checked.
- This started almost immediately after the Play 2.1 upgrade.

This caused no user-facing problems. Deployments to CODE and PROD were blocked during the afternoon while the diagnosis/fix was taking place.

## Resolution

- @tackley identified the problem as the shared Ivy cache containing an incompatible sbtassembly plugin, which was downloaded by another project.
- We flushed the ivy cache with this build, http://teamcity.gudev.gnl:8111/viewType.html?buildTypeId=bt149
- In doing this we realised the proxy configuration also needed changing, so that was [patched too](https://github.com/guardian/frontend/commit/9bc08f444056ffe51c0295ca404a272a7233810d)

## Thoughts

- Two days is a long time in between creating the problem and finding it.
- We operate in a shared build environment outside of our control so always run the risk of other builds doing something odd. We can help ourselves by running regular clean builds (Ie. fresh cache, clean build directories etc.)
- Grant did the work but was off at the time when we found the problem, which highlighted a certain lack of knowledge about how to fix this in the
  team without him.

## Actions

- Schedule nightly builds for our projects (run from a clean state) and speak to WebSys about doing something similar with the ivy cache _rm -Rf_
  build. If we wake up one morning with 12 red builds we are likely to take note.
- Team education around sbt.
