# Frontend incident report - 05/07/2013

Date 5th July 2013 from 09:00 -> 14:10

## Summary

From about 09:00 (UK time) users on m.guardiannews.com who were located in the USA, started getting served 503 errors.

This started off small and was not initially picked up as there are relatively few users from the USA (at that time of day)
and it was not affecting all users.

This became more of an issue later on in the day as more users came online (and thus a higher percentage of traffic was getting errors).

It was initially thought that the timeout for responses was too agressive (this has been changed the prevuious day) and
increasing the timeout did initially appear to solve the problem.

The problem however re-appeared later (for a very short period) and it was realised that it was actually a problem with the
configuration of Saint Mode. This was fixed and rolled out to production.

## Effect on end users
At the worst time, about 60% of users based in the USA and using m.guardiannews.com were getting 503 errors. As a percentage
of total mobile users at the worst time it was about 12%.

There were reports sent to the user help desk and some mentions were noted on Twitter.

## Lessons to be learned.
Not all developers have ready access to proxies that make them appear to be in different parts of the world. Not everyone
was able to pretend to be on the West coast of the USA to reproduce the problem.

The site did not serve stale on error as expected. This should be fixed.

Not everyone on the team has access to the tools/configuration needed to fix the problem, and not everyone on the team
knows that part of the system.

No alerts were received from automated monitoring.



