# Problems with Javascript Ajax calls

- date: Starting about 2.30pm 2013-01-30
- duration: about 6 hours
- environment: PROD

## Summary

At 2.30pm a release was made to production that contained two change-sets. One of these was a change to
the frontend router to enable internal rewrites so that pages such as m.guardian.co.uk/video would work.

This basically involved changing $request_uri to $uri

- [$request_uri](http://wiki.nginx.org/HttpCoreModule#.24request_uri)
- [$uri](http://wiki.nginx.org/HttpCoreModule#.24uri)

A side effect of this seems to have stopped parameters being passed through to proxy servers causing pagination to break
and in some cases causing requests to fail.

Despite the dashboard graph clearly showing errors, nobody really noticed until about 6pm. Due to the fact that there
were two change-sets it took a while to figure out what was wrong and revert the changes.

## Thoughts

Core content was unaffected and hence most users were still getting the page they came to see. A possible exception to
this is gallery pages which use parameters to control which image is seen.

Omniture graphs for the time period might show a slight dip over the previous day, but it is a close thing and
probably well within normal fluctuations.

## Actions

The big take-away here is that the metrics graph was *totally ignored* for the entire afternoon. If there is something
going on with the metrics we need to check it out.

The other big takeaway is that swimlaning saved us a system outage. Users still saw the things they were coming to see
and the site as a whole remained stable.
